I'm here at Wake Forest University one
of the mecca's of tissue regeneration
these are technologies that fascinate me
because they could add decades to our
life let me take a look inside
what is regenerative medicine mean
creating cells tissues and organs for
patients who may need them you know well
right now of course we have a limited
lifespan because your parts are breaking
down but imagine a time in the future
when once those parts start breaking
down you can just plug a new one right
in dr. Atala and his team have grown
nearly two dozen different types of body
parts including muscle bone even this
working heart valve you can actually see
it pump away and of course you can see
the leaflets from above open up close I
could use this that's amazing it's a
real valve yeah it's a real valve when
you first got your md degree did you
ever think you'd be doing this no is
this the stuff that we thought was
science fiction right yeah I thought it
was I walked in here here's how he does
it first a mold is built then it's
seeded with live cells then it goes into
an incubator where the cells multiply
and grow this actually the room where we
cook the organs that you will so once
you're made we actually put them into
these devices that actually keep these
organs alive and till we implant them in
labs across the country
scientists are breaking new ground every
day this doctor is performing a bladder
transplant with an organ built from the
patient's own cells it was grown in a
lab in about eight weeks tell me what
regenerative medicine could do to our
longevity how long could we live I think
it's possible to keep extending life and
by putting in those organs that you need
putting into parts that you need you'll
be able to extend life by several
decades in our lifetime
over the next 20-30 years how much are
we gonna be able to expand human
longevity well I think if we start
combining things like better prevention
better care doing things better for your
body and this with regenerative medicine
we may even push that up to one hundred
twenty hundred thirty years sometime
that's really incredible and so
wonderful what you do too because I know
that although you're a heart surgeon
that your biggest concern is preventive
medicine getting people to take care of
themselves so that they don't have to
come and be operated you know it's it's
really cool when you first learn how to
do in my case heart surgery yeah but
then when you realize that so often the
operation that I'm doing is reversing
something you did to yourself right your
soldier starts to seep out in your pores
and that's actually the calling a cry
for so many physicians other nurses you
know healers around the countries that
to try to get at these problems before
they hit us that's dated sometimes stuff
happens right trauma diseases you
couldn't predict you have to have
surgery to take a cancer out and so
you've got to be able to rebuild the
body so take that bladder as an example
so let's say you had bladder cancer and
you lost your bladder what are you gonna
do how you go to the bathroom well until
recently there wasn't a lot but this is
what was in that video this feel that
Oprah this is actually the mold that's
created to build a new bladder so I
could use this mold take some of your
blood inject it around this and over a
couple weeks you'll grow your own
bladder
it'll be your cells that is incredible
and it goes on I mean this is the same
moment you just sort of take some blood
and some cells and then put this in the
mold and then that's what they do they
incubate it incubate and here's the big
breakthrough is that if you build it
yeah your cells will come
that's basically it yeah and so we can
actually now recognize that your body's
continually making stem cells it's all
about stem cells to a large extent so if
it in your blood right now their stem
cells looking around there so you know
what
Oprah's left eye is not so healthy today
I'm gonna go in there and fix it yeah
and so we don't didn't know too recently
how to turn that up a little bit
regenerative medicine is about getting
that work for a bladder outside your
body this is an example let's say your
this is like scientist Eve was right it
is like
you know what you should read about in
science fiction or couldn't even imagine
happening unbelievable I have shown you
in the past
yes livers yes that feel that this is a
liver yeah that has had all the cells
taken out of it
uh-huh so all this left behind was was
somebody's liver this was an animal
liver okay and all the cells have been
taken out so you're left with a the two
by fours that are the structure of the
oregon without the actual cells in it
okay so let's say I took an organ like
this out of an animal and I put your
cells in it uh-huh
you could grow your own liver so when I
look to do a transplant on you I
wouldn't have to take a dead person's
all we need is is this mold I'll take my
blood stripping it down yeah put the
cells into this based it in that chamber
that we showed in the video and it would
slowly grow your own organ back so that
means if you're gonna have a heart
transplant you could have a heart
transplant it with your own cells so you
rebuild your own heart exactly so yeah
no medications no medication this départ
that's really important we have about
7,000 people waiting for hearts for
example you only get two thousand donors
this is an opportunity for us to my Pig
well you not blown away completely I'd
by the way I as much as I follow this
stuff I had no idea how far this field
has come Wow
I mean that huge advance okay and now
the other thing we learned with these
tissues is that you have to actually
stretch them tissue wants to be used see
that inside this tube yeah that's the
artery put your finger right next to
that trachea and you feel that little
pulse at their little bounciness
I didn't hear okay that's the carotid
artery
that's this artery but it's made from
this mold let me have your hand huh and
just hold it up yeah you see that that
straw it looks like a straw but if you
take that straw again it's just a mold
and you plant cells on it and then you
put it in a chamber and push on it like
your heart will be pushing on a blood
vessel you can regrow blood vessel which
means that all of these different
synthetic products should have put
inside your body we don't have to do
that anymore we could actually make
blood vessels to replace your busted
blood vessels
and how long would it take to do that
though this this takes weeks not years
or months right and it's pretty short
term which is why it's becoming into
something that's viable for clinical
practice